Galactic Civil War (0–4 ABY)
Leaving Tatooine
"I want to come with you to Alderaan. There's nothing for me here now. I want to learn the ways of the Force and become a Jedi like my father."
―Luke Skywalker to Obi-Wan Kenobi — Listen (file info)

Luke Skywalker obtains his father's lightsaber from Obi-Wan Kenobi.
The purchase of two droids by Skywalker's uncle changed the youth's life forever. With the discovery of a desperate message to Obi-Wan Kenobi contained within the astromech droid R2-D2, Skywalker soon found himself in the company of Kenobi after being attacked by Sand People. Kenobi then revealed to Skywalker that he had once been a Jedi Knight who served in the Clone Wars with Skywalker's father. He went on to inform Skywalker that his father was no cargo pilot, but a Jedi Knight struck down by Darth Vader.
Soon after, Skywalker and Kenobi came upon a group of slaughtered Jawas—the same ones who sold the droids to Owen Lars. Luke deduced from learning that Imperial stormtroopers were responsible that they might have looked into the sales records of the droids, and rushed home in the hopes of saving his aunt and uncle. Upon quickly returning home, Skywalker discovered that he was too late: his aunt and uncle had been murdered by Imperial stormtrooperslooking for R2-D2 and C-3PO. With his family dead, he agreed to accompany Kenobi to Alderaan to deliver the astromech, who was carrying the plans for the Death Star, to Bail Organa at the behest of Organa's daughter, Princess Leia Organa. The two traveled to the Chalmun's Cantina to obtain passage off the planet and met Han Solo and his first mate Chewbacca. Skywalker nearly had a fatal run-in with Ponda Baba in the cantina. Obi-Wan brokered a deal to pay Solo two thousand credits up front plus fifteen more when they arrived on Alderaan. Luke sold his speeder to pay for the two thousand up front.
Rescue on the Death Star
"I'm Luke Skywalker, I'm here to rescue you!"
―Luke Skywalker to Leia Organa — Listen (file info)
After escaping stormtroopers and blasting off the planet in Solo's ship, the Millennium Falcon, Kenobi began Skywalker's instruction in the ways of the Force, much to the mocking of Solo. This teaching, however, was soon interrupted by their arrival in the Alderaan system and their discovery of the planet's destruction. They then spotted a patrolling TIE Fighter, and, upon following it, found that it was approaching what appeared to be a small moon. To their horror, however, it turned out to be the Death Star. Caught by the Death Star's tractor beam, they were brought aboard the massive space station.

Luke and Han Solo in stormtrooper armor on the Death Star
Once on board, Kenobi separated from Skywalker, Solo, Chewbacca, and the droids to deactivate the tractor beam. However, when R2-D2 discovered that Leia Organa was being held captive, Skywalker insisted on rescuing her. With Solo and Chewbacca's help, the trio made it into the detention area in the guise of Imperial stormtroopers escorting a Wookiee prisoner. They were able to rescue Organa but had to jump into the garbage chute in order to escape the pursuing Imperial forces. Later, Skywalker and Organa were separated from Solo and Chewbacca, but after swinging across a deep shaft, they were to meet back up with their companions in the hangar bay.
Eventually, the group escaped the Death Star, but only after Kenobi sacrificed himself in a duel with Darth Vader. They traveled to the hidden Rebel base on Yavin 4, even though the Death Star was tracking them. It was then that Solo received his reward for rescuing Organa and prepared to leave the group. Skywalker attempted to persuade him to stay and help them against the Empire but Solo refused, deeply disappointing him.
Hero of the Rebellion
"There is a great disturbance in the Force."
"I have felt it."
"We have a new enemy: the young Rebel who destroyed the Death Star. I have no doubt this boy is the offspring of Anakin Skywalker."
"How is that possible?"
"Search your feelings, Lord Vader. You will know it to be true. He could destroy us."
"He's just a boy. Obi-Wan can no longer help him."
―Emperor Palpatine and Darth Vader confer about Luke Skywalker — Listen

Luke boards his X-wing starfighter prior to the Battle of Yavin.
It was at the Yavin Base that Skywalker first became an official member of the Rebel Alliance. He spent much time in the base's flight simulators, showcasing his piloting skills for the Rebellion's leaders. In several simulations he was opposed by an entire starfleet and was killed only twice. Red Leader Garven Dreis, after inspecting Skywalker's simulator results with Vanden Willard, approached him and told him how impressed he was with his abilities. Dreis welcomed him as a member of Red Squadron, gave him his own T-65 X-wing starfighter, and assigned him as Red Five.t was Keyan Farlander who showed Luke the basics of flying an X-wing.
Just prior to boarding his X-wing, Skywalker encountered his old friend Biggs Darklighter. The two would be flying as wingmen just like old times in the upcoming battle. In a brief conversation, Darklighter reassured Dreis of Skywalker's piloting skills, and promised Luke that the two would catch up on each other's stories when they got back.
Skywalker took part in the Battle of Yavin, witnessing the death of many compatriots, including Darklighter. After the death of the two squadron leaders, he took it upon himself to lead the final assault. With the timely arrival of the Millennium Falcon and the guidance of Kenobi's spirit, Skywalker took a single shot and used the Force to direct his proton torpedoes to their target,destroying the station. For this action he, Chewbacca, and Han Solo were awarded the Medal of Bravery.
After the destruction of the Death Star, Skywalker spearheaded a number of missions for the Rebel Alliance. Within two weeks of the Battle of Yavin, Skywalker had participated in destroying the Imperial I-class Star Destroyer Liquidator, helped the Alliance collect new X-wings directly from Vors Voorhorian (where he displayed his extraordinary potential in bringing down a TIE Fighter using only his father's lightsaber), fought in the Battle of Vactooine, and traveled to Bonadanand the Unknown Regions. He was also sent to investigate new base locations on the Keeper's World, Akuria II, and Drexel. All three ventures ended in violence and failure. At some point, Skywalker reluctantly agreed to return to Tatooine in order to investigate a crashed Imperial Transport Capsule that Jawas managed to steal, although the mission became a lot more complicated upon being infected with Bledsoe's disease due to a Squill bite, although he nonetheless succeeded in uncovering the connection between Bledsoe's disease, the transport capsules, and Rebel outposts being destroyed.

Luke Skywalker, hero of the Rebellion
The discovery of Luke's identity had become a priority for the Emperor, and after Luke won a spectacular Podracing event on Muunilinst which secured funding for the Rebellion, Imperial spy X-7, who had integrated himself into the Rebel ranks, suspected that Luke was the one the Emperor sought.A short time later, when Luke helped Han and Ferus Olin, a Jedi Master who had been secretly watching over Leia on Alderaan, rescue Leia from Imperial custody over Delaya, X-7 confirmed Luke's identity by dousing Leia with truth serum.Luke survived an assassination attempt by X-7 on Yavin IV. Luke would lay low on his homeworld Tatooine after his recovery, reconnecting with his friends and racing skyhoppers with Jaxson. Luke and Jaxson avoided capture by Bossk, a Trandoshan bounty hunter tasked by Jabba the Hutt to capture Luke, a known associate of Han Solo. X-7 eventually tracked Luke to Tatooine, but the Imperial spy was repelled by the timely arrival of Solo in the Millennium Falcon.
As X-7 gathered forces for a final strike on Skywalker, Luke flew with Red Squadron on a mission to Kamino to inspect Imperial weapons development. Lune Divinian, a mercenary pilot recruited by X-7, attempted to assassinate Luke on Kamino, where Red Squadron had found evidence of genetic experiments by the Empire. "Div" abandoned his mission and was taken into custody by the Rebellion.Luke would ultimately be captured by Rezi Soresh, X-7's master and the brains behind Project Omega, an Imperial program bent on creating the perfect assassin by erasing his memory. Han Solo would once again come to the rescue, shooting Soresh dead.
Luke, Leia and Wedge Antilles began searching for a suitable world to establish a new Alliance base two months after the Battle of Yavin, using only T-65 X-wings to avoid attracting Imperials. One of these journeys led them to the Dominus system in the Outer Rim. There, the three are attacked by a Star Destroyer and a squad of TIE fighters. During the confrontation, Organa's fighter was hit and she was forced to make an emergency landing on Dominus III. Leia killed an Imperial pilot chasing after her, while Luke and Wedge repaired her ship. Later, the three escaped the Imperials by sneaking through a polar storm and returned to the Alliance fleet.
After a practice run in the simulator, Skywalker and Antilles were called by Organa to a secret meeting. There, Organa talked about the possibility of an Imperial spy within the Alliance and founded Gray Flight, a new starfighter squadron that would exist outside the Alliance's official hierarchy. This new team included Skywalker, Organa, Antilles, Prithi, Rus Kal Kin, Falback Kord, Tess Alder, Ardana Cinn and Gram Cortess. Gray Flight's mission both to uncover the spy and find a home to make a permanent base for the Alliance.
As they were performing an exercise routine, Skywalker and Prithi broke protocol. Upset that Luke disobeyed a direct order, Leia grounded him for the next six rotations and deactivated his X-wing's command codes. While Organa took Gray Flight on a scouting mission, Skywalker went to have lunch with Prithi, who had also been grounded by Organa. However, Skywalker received a warning from Obi-Wan Kenobi's spirit, who said that Leia was in danger. Deciding to disobey Organa's orders again, Skywalker and Prithi took their ships and went to save her.As they jumped to Organa's location, Skywalker and Prithi talked about how she was a Force-sensitive just like he was.
Six months after the Battle of Yavin, Skywalker, Solo, and Chewbacca were dispatched to investigate BloodScar pirate activity near a Rebel supply line, although Solo was reluctant and unsure of his ultimate role in the Alliance. During the mission, Skywalker and the others became mixed up with a group of AWOL stormtroopers, and traveled with them on their ship after the rogue stormtroopers began following them and helped them beat off a pirate attack. The stormtroopers originally posed as Consolidated Shipping investigators while the Rebels posed as independent shippers, but they quickly learned each other's identity. Neither side fully trusted the other, but Skywalker was able to keep hostilities from breaking out between them. However, they then learned that Leia Organa was being hunted on Shelkonwa, and sought to help her, while the Hand of Judgment believed that the pirates had a connection to the Governor's office on Shelkonwa. The three Rebels, with some aid from the renegade Imperials, were able to sneak into Makrin City and rescue Organa, and escape back to the Rebel Alliance despite a large Imperial presence, including that of Darth Vader. During these events Ben Kenobi spoke to Luke through the Force and continued to teach him more about the Force.
At an unknown point, Skywalker encountered the Teräs Käsi disciple and Force-sensitive Tusken Raider KkH'Oar'Rrhr, who had been tailing Skywalker to avenge his tribe due to it being wiped out by the "Demon Outlander" (actually his father, Anakin Skywalker). The Raider, in a vicious duel, defeated Skywalker and held him at his mercy. However, having encountered Vader earlier, who also resembled the "Demon Outlander," he spared Skywalker due to a vision he experienced, disobeying his mentor, the Emperor's Hand Arden Lyn, in the process, and left for parts unknown.
Eager to serve the Rebel Alliance, Skywalker's early years were filled with adventures including fighting pirates, aiding in battle against Imperial forces and evading the clutches of Darth Vader and his agents. While on a scouting mission, Skywalker's vessel was caught in an ambush by Imperials that were blocading the Yavin Sector, thus forcing him to hide in the hyperwash of a transdimensional comet, depositing him onto the barren ice world Hoth. Skywalker returned to the Alliance, informed his superiors of the isolated world, and the Rebel Alliance planned to evacuate their outposts on Yavin 4 and Thila to set up a base on Hoth. In addition, Luke with Red Squadron aided the Rebels in their evacuation during the most intense portion of the blockade, and temporarily managed to save Dodonna, although he was unable to get him off the planet.

Luke with Leia Organa, R2-D2, and C-3PO, on Mimban
When Yavin IV was evacuated, Jan Dodonna promoted Skywalker to Commander, but the promotion was not filed before the General's capture. Even so, mere days after the base was evacuated, Skywalker became a Lieutenant Commander, and led missions to Dantooine, Ralltiir and Tatooine. It was during this time that Skywalker also began to truly feel at home in a starfighter squadron. When not flying alongside Red Squadron and his mentor Commander Narra, he led the neophyte fighter group Rogue Squadronto planets like Barkhesh, Chorax, Corellia, and Gerrard V.
Before the year was out, Skywalker was also finding himself participating in missions outside of a starfighter cockpit. He saw action at Jabiim, Poln Minor,[56] Kalist VI, Kiva, and Per Lupelo, and learned first-hand of the horrors of war. He even met a clone trooper, Able, who was unaware of the events in the galaxy, with a little bit of history and showing of his lightsaber, Luke was able to convince Able that the Jedi took up arms against the Empire, who swore loyalty to the Alliance. On Kalist VI, Luke had an unexpected reunion with his childhood friend Janek Sunber, now a lieutenant in the Imperial Army, which ended with the near destruction of the Alliance Fleet.
Luke later joined a team sent to a desert moon near Aridus. When they were attacked by the long-extinct creatures known as rakghouls, he heard a calling in the Force and was carried off the by the rakghouls. He was soon confronted by a centuries old Jedi Celeste Morne, who was driven insane by the spirit of the much older Sith Karness Muur, who was residing inside the Muur Talisman she wore. Morne quickly defeated Skywalker and held him at saber point. Murr saw great potential in Luke and detached the talisman from Morne and leapt towards Luke. Leia pushed Luke out of the way and the talisman began to attach itself to Leia who Murr also saw potential in. Luke tried to pull the talisman off to no avail, however Celeste Morne regained her sanity and used her lightsaber to remove the talisman. She then wore it again intending to trap Muur within her body. As Morne prepared to leave the planet she was confronted by Luke who asked to know more about the Jedi's history and his destiny. Morne responded by telling him that there was darkness in his blood, in his past, and in his future. Morne then left, however now there was nothing controlling the rakghouls and they turned their sights on Luke and Leia. Luke told Leia to stay behind him and just before the rakghoul's could attack Han Solo and Chewbacca came to rescue them.
In 1 ABY, Luke Skywalker was contacted by Mallatobuck, the wife of his friend Chewbacca, while he was working with R2-D2 on an engine in a workshop. Chewbacca was supposed to go home with Han Solo for Life Day—an important Wookiee festival—but there was no sign of the Millennium Falcon around Kashyyyk. Mallatobuck was worried, and she wanted to know whether Skywalker had seen her husband recently. The Rebel pilot had no clue why the Falcon was late, but he tried to reassure Mallatobuck, advising her to smile and to trust Solo and Chewbacca's ability to overcome any danger. At bit later, Darth Vader ordered the Blockade of Kashyyyk in hopes of catching captain Solo and his Wookiee first mate. However, the Imperial agents were fooled into thinking the Rebels had already left the planet, and the blockade ceased. Luke Skywalker then went to Kashyyyk along with Princess Leia and attended the traditional Life Day ceremony.
In 2 ABY, he accompanied Leia Organa on a diplomatic mission to the Circarpous system, where they crash landed on the planet of Mimban. On Mimban, Skywalker and Organa encountered a Force-sensitive old woman named Halla. They struck a deal with her, promising to find the Kaiburr crystal if she promised to aid them in their escape off the planet. However, Darth Vader was also looking for the powerful Kaiburr crystal. Both in pursuit of the powerful Force relic, Skywalker and Vader dueled in the ancient Temple of Pomojema. Every movement of Skywalker was guided by the spirit of Kenobi and empowered by the crystal, so the young man amazingly managed to hold Vader off, even managing to sever the Dark Lord's mechanical arm. Shocked, Vader tumbled down a deep pit, ending their duel.
