Starkiller's mission
"He was meant to root out the Rebels, not give them hope. His sacrifice will only inspire them…"
―Emperor Palpatine, reflecting on Galen Marek's death
Since 18 BBY, Darth Vader had secretly been training an apprentice, Galen Marek, who had been captured as a child during the suppression of surviving Jedi on Kashyyyk. Around 3 BBY, Marek was knighted as a Sith Lord and received the codename of "Starkiller", and was sent on numerous missions to eliminate surviving Jedi and disparate rebel groups. At a TIE Fighter Construction Facility over Nar Shaddaa, Starkiller destroyed the militia led by Jedi Master Rahm Kotaand left their leader for dead. On Raxus Prime, he killed the insane Aleena Jedi Kazdan Paratus. Finally, in a mission on Felucia, he killed Jedi Master Shaak Ti. Starkiller expected to overthrow the Emperor and rule the galaxy at Vader's side, but Palpatine had discovered his identity and ordered Vader to kill him. Upon Starkiller's return, Vader savagely injuredhim and cast his body into space.
Palpatine, however, came to think that Marek could be useful to him. Marek's body was recovered and sent for extensive medical treatment aboard the hospital ship Empirical. Around 2 BBY, Marek had recovered and was to be used to round up senators and leaders that were speaking against Empire in the Senate. Vader utilized Marek as an unwitting double agent, letting him believe that he was still working against the Emperor. Marek recovered the blinded and despondent Rahm Kota from Bespin and convinced him to resume his fight against the Empire. He then returned to Kashyyyk, where Princess Leia Organa was being held hostage by Governor Ozzik Sturn, and successfully rescued Organa, killed Sturn, and disrupted the Empire's slaving operations against the Wookiees. Returning to Felucia, Marek fought against the Empire's attempted genocide of the Felucians and rescued Bail Organa from Maris Brood, Shaak Ti's grief-stricken apprentice. On Vader's advice, Marek subsequently destroyed a shipyard over Raxus Prime as a symbolic blow against the Empire

Marek confronts Vader on the Death Star in order to rescue the Alliance leaders.
Marek then gathered Senators such as Bail Organa, Bail's daughter Leia, Garm Bel Iblis, and Mon Mothma, as well as Jedi Master and General Rahm Kota, on Corellia. In a swift series of Meetings, they agreed to form the Alliance to Restore the Republic,signing the Corellian Treaty with other rebel organizations and organizing into one Alliance.
However, Vader, along with Imperial forces, raided the meeting, captured the rebels, and revealed to Marek that he had only been used to rally the Empire's enemies. Marek tracked the Dark Lord and the Alliance leaders to the Death Star in the Horuz system. There he dueled both Vader and Sidious. The former Sith apprentice sacrificed himself, allowing the rebels to be rescued by his pilot, Captain Juno Eclipse. Escaping to Kashyyyk, the senators, inspired by what he had done, vowed to continue with the Rebellion he had started.
The Declaration of Rebellion
 Main article: Declaration of Rebellion
"We, the Rebel Alliance, do therefore in the name—and by the authority—of the free beings of the Galaxy, solemnly publish and declare our intentions: To fight and oppose you and your forces, by any and all means at our disposal; To refuse any Imperial law contrary to the rights of free beings; To bring about your destruction and the destruction of the Galactic Empire; To make forever free all beings in the galaxy. To these ends, we pledge our property, our honor, and our lives"
―The Declaration of Rebellion
Following the signing of the Corellian Treaty, the new Alliance's leaders made a public Declaration of Rebellion in 2 BBY. The Declaration was an overtly political one, intended to combat the Empire's propaganda that the Rebellion was nothing more than a new breed of Separatists. In it, the Rebels recognized the necessity of Galactic Government, but also declared that "when a Government displays a history of usurpation, abuse and moral atrocity, displaying a clear design to subjugate totally and absolutely beings born free under the auspices of nature, it is our right — our duty — to depose of that Government."
In addition to the symbolism of the Declaration, the Alliance also took on a new emblem in the form of the Marek family crest, in memory of Galen Marek's sacrifice.Thus began the war that would last two decades and see the loss of billions of lives.
