The Witches of Dathomir

Skywalker fighting Teneniel Djo in the ruins of the Chu'unthor
In 8 ABY, Leia Organa was being courted by the Hapan prince Isolder for her hand in marriage. In response, Han Solo abducted Leia and escaped with her to an unknown planet. The galaxy was scandalized by the apparent kidnapping involving two of the Rebellion's most famous figures. Luke naturally started investigating and found some Hapan investigators roughing up Drackmarian warlord Omogg. He stopped them and, as a reward, was given the name and location of the planet Han had won in a sabacc game from Omogg and where he was taking Leia: Dathomir. Luke and R2-D2 traveled with Isolder on the Song of War to Dathomir, where he faked his death and, using the Force, controlled his descent through the atmosphere. During their adventures on Dathomir, Luke taught Isolder the principles of the Force, despite Isolder having negligible Force-sensitivity. On this planet, Luke discovered the ruins of the Chu'unthor, an ancient Jedi training vessel and an entire Force-sensitive culture of witches. Luke was seen as a rarity among the Dathomiri as there were not any male "witches." One of the young witches, Teneniel Djo, was at first attracted to Luke, but she later developed an interest in Isolder and would eventually marry him. Luke decided to aid Teneniel Djo's clan of witches, the Singing Mountain Clan, against the dark side users on Dathomir, the Nightsisters. In this battle, he was nearly killed by their leader, Gethzerion, but healed himself in only a few hours using the Force. He then went on to pilot the Millennium Falcon, operating all of its systems by himself, using the power of the Force to greatly enhance the effectiveness of the ship, and rescued Han from certain death at the hands of Gethzerion. Using the Falcon, Luke shot down Gethzerion's shuttle, killing her and all aboard, and disabled the orbital nightcloak placed in orbit by Zsinj.

Skywalker with his lightsaber ignited
The ancient archives recovered from the Chu'unthor were brought back to Luke's apartment on Coruscant and it was there that Leia contacted him during the mission to Tatooine to recover the Killik Twilight. He was reading the documents at the time. After a conversation about the Killik Twilight, Leia and Luke talked about their discoveries about their father'schildhood on Tatooine. Luke told his sister that he had done a name search on the HoloNetand had discovered that Anakin was a Podracer and had won his freedom by winning the Boonta Eve Classic. Leia told Luke about her experience with the Force and her fears of becoming like Darth Vader to which Luke encouraged her to forgive him, and told her that if she held onto her fear and anger would turn her into what she feared.
After these events, Skywalker's Jedi search intensified and the spirit of Obi-Wan Kenobi once again visited him. Kenobi said his final farewell to Skywalker in 9 ABY. His spirit would no longer pay Luke any visits, lest for one meeting two decades later. Skywalker, although saddened, realized he was not the last of the old Jedi, but rather, the first of the new.
